- [Narrator] Let's download and install
the latest release of WildFLy.
On this page I'm going to scroll down to version 15.0.1 final.
Click on the zip.
You may see a newer version depending
on when you watch this course.
After downloading, let's open the terminal window.
From the terminal, we'll type cd tilde downloads, hit enter.
Next, we'll list and sort the
directory to see what we have.
From here we see we have our WidlFly zip.
So we're going to copy our WildFly zip
to our home directory.
By using the tilde at the end.
That will navigate back to our home directory.
See the WildFly?
We're going to unzip WildFly.
And once it's done unzipping the file.
We're going to cd into WildFLy final.
Let's clear this out.
List our directories.
And JBoss and WildFLy come with several profiles
that you can start the application server with.
These web profiles are used at startup
to control what Java EE modules are made available
to the system.
In general, these profiles are controlled
by x amount configuration.
Files in two broad categories.
A standalone and a domain.
Standalone means what its name suggests.
When you start JBoss or WildFly using the bin,
standalone, dot, sh.
Or dot BAT file.
It will start the application server with a simple
Jave EE web profile.
That stands independent of any application servers.
Looking at the WildFly admin guide, it tells us that
it's not necessary to use a manage domain.
And for these we can just use the standalone mode.
Let's go back to the terminal window, here.
And hit enter.
In this command, let's see what happens in standalone mode.
Now the logs demonstrate what Java EE modules
are loaded into the server memory and made available
to the application that you might deploy.
If we scroll up, we'll see that the EJB3 modules are loaded.
To better demonstrate these differences,
let's go back again.
Kill the process.
We'll type bin, standalone.
And this time we'll run the server in full standalone mode.
We'll do that by typing dash, dash, server config,
equals standalone, dash,
full, dot XML.
And hit enter.
Again, several modules are loaded.
But in particular, as we scroll up,
you'll now notice that the ActiveMQ modules
are loaded into the standalone mode.
Now let's a look and find where these modules
are located at.
If we open a new terminal window.
And go into our WildFly directory again.
We can do an ls, dash, la.
On our standalone configuration.
And see that there are several XML files
that are made available.
These XML files tell what profile
should be loaded into standalone mode.
Additionally, you may have the need to create
your own web profile.
And you can do this by copying
one of these standalone XML files.
By the way, we're running the command;
bin, slash, standalone, dot sh.
It implicitly runs the application
in the default standalone mode.
Which is what we have listed here.
You can also specify this of course.
If we go back to our other window.
Kill the process again.
Type bin, standalone, dash, dash, server.
Config equals standalone dot XML.
Hit enter.
Domain mode is one of the primary
new features of WildFly.
And has the ability to manage multiple WildFly instances
from a single control point.
A collection of such servers is referred to as a
member of the domain.
With a single domain controller.
Process, acting as a central management control point.
Let's kill the current process.
And kick-off the server in domain mode.
We'll do this by typing bin, domain, dot sh.
And hit enter.
In the logs, we'll see a line saying starting server-one.
And starting server-two.
Here's our server-one.
And registering our server two-process.
Starting server-two.
And registering server-two.
In our other terminal window.
If we type, let's clear this out.
Ps dash ef, pipe, grep, Java.
This will show up all of the processes kicked-off
by this domain, dot sh.
If we scroll up.
We'll see that the process controller was started.
We see a host controller was started.
We also see that the server-one was started.
And that a server-two was started.
For a total of four processes.
We'll cover more of configuring domain mode later on
in this chapter.